adding doc for near-cli-rs for more visibility (#1328)
near/docs: docs/4.tools/cli-rs.md

---
id: near-cli-rs
title: NEAR CLI RS
---

# NEAR-CLI-RS

## Quick Start Guide

> You can think of the `near-cli-rs` tool as a human-friendly companion to help interact with the [NEAR Protocol](https://near.org/) from the command line. This comes with a guided prompt interface to help you with making your commands built-in rust!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `near-cli-rs` tool is a human-friendly companion that helps you interact with the [NEAR Protocol](https://near.org/) from the command line. This has a guided prompt interface to help you make your own commands built in Rust.
```

> You can think of the `near-cli-rs` tool as a human-friendly companion to help interact with the [NEAR Protocol](https://near.org/) from the commmand line. This comes with a guided prompt interface to help you with making your commands built in rust!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can think of the `near-cli-rs` tool as a human-friendly companion to help interact with the [NEAR Protocol](https://near.org/) from the command line. This comes with a guided prompt interface to help you with making your commands built-in rust!
```

> > **_NOTE:_** This is a separate tool from the [near-cli](https://docs.near.org/tools/near-cli) a tool of similar functionality without the guided prompts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **_NOTE:_** This is a separate tool from [near-cli](https://docs.near.org/tools/near-cli), a CLI tool of similar functionality without the guided prompts.
```

## Install

> Download the pre-compiled version of near-cli for your OS from the github [Releases Page](https://github.com/near/near-cli-rs/releases/) or install it with [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/) (Rust's package manager tool) with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the pre-compiled version of near-cli for your OS from [GitHub Releases Page](https://github.com/near/near-cli-rs/releases/) or install it with [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/) (Rust's package manager tool) with the following command:
```

```
$ cargo install near-cli-rs
```

## Getting Started

> To utilize the commands that involved transactions, sending tokens, deploying contracts, etc. You'll need to store a full access key to a given account on your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To utilize the commands that involve transactions, sending tokens, deploying contracts, etc., you'll need to store a full access key to a given account on your machine.
```

> To utilize the commands that involved transactions, sending tokens, deploying contracts ect.. You'll need to store a full access key to a given account onto your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To utilize the commands that involved transactions, sending tokens, deploying contracts etc. You'll need to store a full access key to a given account on your machine.
```

Run...

```
near-cli
```

Using the arrow keys navigate to...

```
account  -Manage accounts
```

Navigate to...

```
import-account -Import existing account (a.k.a. "sign-in")
```

> choose any of the preferred sign in methods, for this example we'll choose the...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
choose any of the preferred sign-in methods. For this example, we'll choose the...
```

```
using-web-wallet -Import existing account using NEAR Wallet (a.k.a. "sign in")
### Account

> - Gives you information on a specified account, near balance, storage, list of access keys ect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gives you information on a specified account, near balance, storage, list of access keys, etc.
```

```

> For this tutorial select testnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial select `testnet`
```

```
What is the name of the network?
mainnet
>testnet
shardnet
```

> You'll get redirected to wallet.testnet.near.org, grant authorization. Then in your terminal you'll be asked to enter in your account ID. Give it the name of the account you just authorized access to and a full access key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll get redirected to `wallet.testnet.near.org`. Once there, grant authorization. Then in your terminal, you'll be asked to enter your account ID. Give it the name of the account you just authorized access to and a full access key.
```

| `delete-account`       | Delete an Account                          |
| `list-keys`            | View a list of keys for an account         |
| `add-key`              | Add an access key to an account            |
| `delete-key`           | Delete an access key from an account       |

### Tokens

This will allow you to manage your token assets such as NEAR, FTs and NFTs

| Option              | Description                                                           |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `send-near`         | Transfers NEAR to a specified recipient in units of NEAR or yoctoNEAR |
| `send-ft`           | Transfer Fungible Tokens to a specified user                          |
| `send-nft`          | Transfers NFTs between accounts                                       |
| `view-near-balance` | View the balance of NEAR tokens                                       |
| `view-ft-balance`   | View the balance of NEAR Tokens                                       |
| `view-nft-assets`   | View the balance of NFT Tokens                                        |

### Contract

> This option allows you to manage an interact with your smart contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option allows you to manage and interact with your smart contracts
```

| Option          | Description             |
| --------------- | ----------------------- |
| `call-function` | Execute Function        |
| `deploy`        | Add a new contract code |
| `download-wasm` | Download Wasm           |

### Transaction

Operate Transactions

| Option                 | Description                 |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `view-status`          | View a transaction status   |
| `construct-tansaction` | Construct a new transaction |

### Config

> Manage the connection parameters inside the config.toml file for `near-cli-rs`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manage the connection parameters inside the `config.toml` file for `near-cli-rs`
```
